hey guys today very special day we have
Graham Dix all the way from the UK he's
arrived on the 18th today's 21st I
believe yeah
so it's Monday we're about 11 days out
from big dogs so it's come here from UK
to compete in Australia at the biggest
powerlifting competition on the planet
and we timed it so that it could have
his last squat session he was made with
the exact equipment that we're going to
be using in competition it's the same
one I left it's the exact same barbell
and his vests what so far in training is
how much for version 10 400 10 kilograms
how many weeks ago is that two weeks ago
and today we want to do a little bit
better than that whether we do a similar
weight but better or a little bit
heavier I always like to go a little bit
heavier so that's the plan
we're gonna take out time we're probably
going to spend the next hour warming up
warming up his shoulders look at the
size of him he's a great bench press so
a lot of people will know that by now
so to bench press big numbers you need a
whole bunch of muscle mass to support
that one of the negatives with that is
the mobility that you lose in the
shoulders because there's just so much
muscle mass to support his shoulders so
getting under a barbell is a little bit
of a challenge so we're going to spend
probably about the next 20 minutes
warming up his shoulders before we even
get under a barbell so stay tuned we've
got some great sports ahead I'm going to
be wrapping his knees for the first time
he is used to getting his knees wrapped
but that was something that was very
important for us as well is to get a
feel for my knee wraps because I'm gonna
be wrapping these knees on the day and
we want every advantage that we can we
are in it to win it up week
okay so both day ahead let's do it so
few external rotation exercises we'll do
some that pull down some of this some
dumbbell presses as well
rather than thinking of this as a
stretch we're going to take the muscles
through their full range of motion which
is far more valuable than than actually
stretching the muscles rotator cuff
muscles sit here and that's what we're
working have a look at the weight were
using it's just the first plate there's
nothing on there this is an activation
not build yeah pretty much it's just
movement right now okay same with the
lat pulldown on our other body axis
upper body session we're doing more than
double this this is just
to use the lats that's a very important
muscle stabilizing the shoulder joint
we'll hang this is the stretched
position so it's taking the muscles
through the full range of motion full
hang shoulder blades back and down the
back covers back to the fourth position
lifting the weights about position
again it's not heavy
Grimes best white that is pressed
overhead is 220 kilograms so this is
only 20 kilo dumbbells we're not trying
to build these delts we're just trying
to get a white respectable enough to get
in your positions okay that's guys pull
stretch pull it down
good okay right now this is serratus
anterior race basically light dumbbell
and is pressing in 45 degrees out in
front of him this is a weight that we
this is an exercise that we normally do
with a very lightweight but it forward
to strengthen the muscles that we're
targeting here which is the serratus
anterior he will still do it a little
bit heavier than that but that is the
target muscles it's the serratus
anterior those are the muscles that hold
the shoulder blade in place the shoulder
blade is a floating bone and it floats
over the top of the rib cage
so the surround us anterior holds the
shoulder blade flush against the rib
cage so we need that active as well so
we got surrounded sensor arrays external
rotations and then just a push and pull
exercise we just did about two to three
rounds of that and that's a great
warm-up for the shoulders for someone
like Graham who has difficulty getting
under a barbell now we'll probably start
trying to get under the bar though
duration
speaks in shame yeah in person he did
lie back for the first time last week
3:25 did you do two sets of three I'm
anticipating that there's going to be
about a 20 kilogram difference between
lobar squat and Highbar squat so if
you've done a a high bar 410 I think
that you've got the ability to do 430
today but that's why I want to put 420
on so it moves fast and we'll be able to
tell with if you get the 420 kilograms
with how fast it moves with whether or
not you can do better than that on game
day which I'm hoping you can
but sometimes means that hot summer
I
[Music]
slowly slow down he's out he's out he's
out
hey I'll get you to try and stand out
[Music]
we've got a hundred and thirty kilograms
on the bar he's done one set of that
before that he did three sets of 80
kilograms that's how he warms up and
that's how I like to warm up as well
lots and lots of sets at a very light
weight to get warm into a mass of the
position we're focusing right now on
moving the exact same speed that is
going to be moving out when the bar goes
over 400 kilograms so a big mistake that
a lot of people make is while the
waiters light they just dump it really
fast and they don't pay attention to to
the detail with the technique in
particular with the speed of the
technique so that's what we're gonna be
focusing on right now so it's 130
kilograms he's already done one set we
may do two more sets of this and then
we'll go up and then as soon as we get
to a decent weight it'll just be single
single single and be able to go up
really really quickly so we're probably
about it I'd say 40 minutes and we've
only got 130 kilograms on the bar so I
dare say it's probably gonna be about an
hour from now till we get to the top way
but pay attention to all of these
warm-up sets pay attention to the speed
that he's doing it with he's got massive
legs he's kind of really just bouncing
out of position here he's got this tight
belt it's got sorry another type got a
loose belt he's got loose wrist wraps
just to familiarize himself with the
technique of the equipment and the feel
of the equipment this is too light for
knee wraps for him on the next set I'm
gonna introduce really light knee wraps
but check out his set now check out the
speed check out the intention is the
exact same intention that he's going to
be posting with these top way
good a good
tensions they fight they [__] me down
these enemies out slow
[Music]
just like they say
okay so this is a lot earlier than James
used to freeze near wrapping this is a
very soft wrap and I'm only putting
normally for myself I'd put five
revolutions but for Graham I can't get
the six with the tension that I'm using
so it's just it's just soft tension so
it's just like a nice nice leap that's a
comfort wrap how does that feel okay
nice nice on the singles slow knees out
knees out
[Music]
and now each set we're going to wrap a
little bit tighter so probably what's
that that's 180 I'll probably just use
those soft wraps for one more set and
then after that we'll use the heavier
Judeo wraps as we get super heavy so
basically as we keep on going up and up
and up
I want the way to continue to look like
that so that we're really only working
hard you know over three hundred and
sixty kilograms or for those who speak
American over the 800 pound marks that's
when you're gonna see there might get it
that's when I'll accept a slight change
in tempo on the way out but otherwise
they should be coming up the same speed
as that every single set
[Applause]
[Music]
70 kilograms on the bar now we're going
to start with the heavier abs still not
as tight as what I'm going to go
maybe I'll get seven revolutions with
these let's see you've got big legs so
seven might end up being six
[Music]
six
it's time to chase them tonight
[Music]
[Applause]
set yourself free
now
you're catching me out I'm quite unfit
I'm puffing out and I didn't even do
that's what that's kind of screaming the
adrenaline and all that I'll get kind of
excited back there but that was quite
exciting that was a 400 kilogram squat
and he moved that really well so that
was the last warm-up for today
today's goal is 420 kilograms
we got the knee wraps on nice and tight
descent but I still have a little bit
more in me not much more just a little
bit more those nine revolutions on the
MIR app but it was very hard for me to
squeeze it in so I know I can get it a
little bit tighter and he's handling it
really really nicely a lot of the times
you can't just go super tight on
people's knees and expect that they can
just squat more but so far so good he
hasn't complained about the tension on
the knee wraps hey Graham has a feel the
knee wraps so we're happy so I mean the
worst piece of feedback would be that
hurts don't go any tighter than that so
and we know he can handle as much as the
equipment as possible
I dare say even though I was watching
that from behind he sunk that there's a
lot of shallows what's happening in
training you know I've been a compliment
that as well
because it gets stressful at these loads
but let me say a plane oh yeah nice and
deep and yeah nice and easy
we got one more set we're gonna switch
it on a little bit more
I need 420 to show us that there's more
in the tank okay because I know there is
man I know there is so we're going to go
like start wrapping it in about 12 or so
minutes okay
having you behave insane pull it there
and just save it my name a [__] adult
sorry for swearing but yeah you know
like just everything behind me because
it's such a new thing for me
having behind me if you say lower lower
lower right there it that's what it
needs to be even though it feels like
crap that's uncomfortable
it's proving that foot mates working you
know ever a time where 400 kilos on your
back would be comfortable so it's it's
just kind of how it's going to be
there's there's comfort for some people
is sitting at home on the couch with the
beer in your hand so that's not what
we're going for today we want strong
position I can see from behind you where
the right position is and you're able to
achieve it for 20 coming up next you
need to bring it harder
I want you to push harder okay I know
you can run so I want you to focus room
now sit down focus not talking
it's time to chase the moon lady tonight
I think I'm gonna
[Music]
[Applause]
set yourself
was the back down set the funny thing I
said we're going to discuss it but it
wasn't up for discussion I just said 350
and he said okay that's it that's his
last heavy squat up into a competition
he will run again but that's a very
successful squat prep we couldn't have
asked for a better finish leading up to
this so we're really happy we do have
other heavy days we've got one more
heavy benchpress today but we still have
a few more like technique days here and
there but they're not hugely it's just
about maintaining the skill that's what
the next sessions are going to be
practicing the movements getting used to
the competition calls and getting used
to the equipment come and check out the
equipment this is the same one that's
going to be used
that's an AMF ex warlord that's the same
model if it's gonna be used at big dogs
that's why I got it and this bar though
come and check it out it's a Goliath
squat bar 25 kilo bar it's thick and it
stays nice and straight it doesn't Bend
that much it's a great bar and that's
what's gonna be using competition which
is my highest priority to be honest with
you in my gym I like to say I have the
best equipment money can buy but the
highest priority is the equipment that's
going to be using competition it always
ends up being the best equipment
this is the reason why I invest in this
type of equipment so that when we have
high-level athletes here to compete in
high-level competitions they can
practice perfectly so that's what we're
doing for Graham we're giving him every
opportunity to get everything perfect so
that it's got the best chance of winning
anyway there was a successful day glad
come over here mate come and say goodbye
to my audience you can probably hear
I've lost my voice now it's a lot of
screaming happening there a lot of
excitement but say goodbye ground where
can we waken my audience and find you if
they want to look beyond social media
Instagram grain makes UK gram Hicks UK
he's also doing coaching as well aren't
you sad no yes I hit him up if you need
any coaching from the best British
Britain's best power lifter to its best
power lifter and hopefully the world's
best power lifter coming soon thanks for
the session man great job great job
so make start see you soon
you
[Music]